---
title: "2024-10-02"
---
## HILT: Careers Lab

### 10 Actions to ensure a great residency
1) **Look ahead**
	1) Talk to the current second/third years who have been on their residencies. Find out the nature of the work, what the average day is like, which companies are really into spaces that you're interested in (e.g AI).
	2) Often tasks/job description doesn't reflect reality.
2) **Engage**
	1) Get stuff in on time, especially when it comes to paperwork (e.g emergency tax)
	2) Double check everything, be ready for the first day
3) **Eat**
	1) Look after your personal health.
	2) Prioritise it; no prizes for not taking lunch
	3) Ask colleagues to join them
4) **15/15**
	1) Arrive 15 minutes before your scheduled start
	2) Leave 15 minutes after the scheduled end
5) **What's expected?**
	1) Be clear with your supervisor/manager about what they're expecting from you
	2) Ask them questions in the interview
	3) "How do I know that I'm doing a good job?"
	4) "What does a great worker look like?"
	5) Keep an eye on your metrics, that you're hitting the mark
6) **Observe**
	1) Watch what's going on around you
	2) Look at how people play off each other.
		1) Casual?
		2) Formal?
		3) Still stay professional though.
	3) Don't be on your phone. Check every half-hour/hour
7) **Notebook**
	1) A physical notebook makes it look like you're more engaged
	2) Use a notebook for external meetings/meetings in general
	3) Write down what's happening, what you need to get done
	4) Jot down each week's events (For CV, report, and own knowledge)
8) **Networking/Build Relationships**
	1) Get to know people inside *and* outside of your department.
	2) Join in the social/sports clubs
9) **Put your hand up**
	1) Volunteer to take on additional responsibilities
		1) Only if you have the time, skills, etc.
		2) Don't overload yourself working 70 hour weeks.
	2) Get involved
	3) Put your hand up when you don't know
		1) Paraphrase, put it in your own language
		2) Ask them to rephrase it
		3) Ensure that you know what they're asking you to do.
10) **Feedback**
	1) Make sure to get feedback recently; whether it be positive or negative.
		1) Have autonomy though. Don't be asking them three times a day.
		2) Formalise it; ask if you could meet every fortnight to evaluate your performance.
	2) Ask the manager their preferred style of communication; by text? phone? in-person?
	3) Try to develop yourself based on it
	4) Get feedback from your interview. Ask them why you were rejected, what went wrong.
11) **Celebrate the little wins**

## My own reference 😎
**Return to this over the next few months**

Bence is an excellent team player, prepared to work with anyone that he needs to in order to get things done. His technical skills are also exceptional, being able to tackle most problems we throw at him, while being ready to ask for help whenever he gets stuck. He puts himself out there, getting to know the people around him and forming deep connections with them that often extend out of the workplace.

# Values
Individual beliefs that motivate you to act in one way or another.
## Why are values important?
- Cornerstone of *your* work culture
- Guide interactions with others
- Inform and shape your decisions
- Hold you (and others) accountable
	- Your brand identity
	- Creates your reputation
	- What do you want to be known for?

## ISE Values

### Scenario 1

**Action**: Be honest about what happened, don't hold back the truth, lay out a plan for fixing the issue

**Values**: Honesty, Transparency, Accountability, Humility

### Scenario 2

**Action**: Ask to be assigned another task for a short while, and then come back to the repetitive one later

**Values**: Communication, Honesty, Self-advocacy

### Scenario 3

**Action**: Ask manager to clarify the specifications and what they want you to do. Task may be easy, but you don't have a concrete idea of what needs to be done.

**Values**: Communication, Transparency, Being realistic

### Scenario 4

**Action:** Depends on how comfortable you are with them/confrontation - Either tell them that you're not happy with them not contributing to the team, or just go straight to the manager.

**Values:** Dealing with difficult team members, communication, confrontation, 

### Scenario 5

**Action:** Attend the meeting, tell the manager that you're struggling to maintain a good work-life balance, and see what kind of solutions you can come up with. Ask to change your hours, give realistic options

**Values:** Honesty, self-advocacy, transparency, communication

### Scenario 6

**Action:** Send an email/message, and find something else to do, or take a break. Go play with your dog. Catch up on work stuff.

**Values:** Communication, enjoying life, initiative

### Scenario 7

**Action**: Shut down that conversation. "I don't think this conversation is appropriate". If they keep going, or if it's a pattern of repeated behaviour, report it. Establish boundaries and a degree of professionalism. 

**Values**: Morality, Inclusion, Boundaries

### Scenario 8

**Action:** Don't drink :) Enjoy the night without alcohol

**Values:** Honesty, Self-advocacy

### Scenario 9

**Action**: Ask the leader of the meeting why you're being invited; Do they want you to contribute, or just learn? Even if you're new, don't be scared to speak up.

**Values:** Self-worth, confidence, communication, proactivity, recognising your faults, courage

## ISE Values
- Integrity
- Honesty
- Innovation
- Curiosity/Willingness to learn
- Communication
- Self-advocacy
- Proactivity
